hello everyone this is mr brain junkie
here
and today we're going to be talking
about a science fiction film called
automata
be ready for some spoilers ahead in 2044
solar flares from the sun have killed
99.7
of the entire human population as a
result
humanity created robots called pilgrims
to aid with their survival
to prevent the ai from betraying humans
we created two protocols that they must
follow
one they cannot harm any forms of life
and two
they cannot alter themselves while doing
a patrol in the subway station
police officer wallace finds a robot
hiding behind some plastic coverings
to his surprise it was trying to repair
itself against
its protocols what's even more shocking
is that the robots clearly understood it
was against the rules which humans have
placed on them
the officer pulls out his gun while the
robot begs to be spared
but he proceeds to shoot its head off
jack works as an insurance investigator
for the company rock
which builds the robots for human
society
he gets a case where the owner is
complaining about how their robot has
killed their dog
but the main character clearly
demonstrates that the robot is unable to
harm any life
most likely the owner killed his own pet
in order to claim
insurance money as everyone is
struggling in this dystopia to survive
after work jack goes back to his wife
rachel who's pregnant with his child
but he doesn't seem too excited at the
prospect as the world is far from the
perfect place to raise
any children at night he gets a call
from his company to investigate one of
their robots that was shot in the
beginning of the film by the police
officer
he finds the prospect of the unit
repairing itself preposterous and
suggests that they should test the
officer for drug use instead
the technician shows him that the robot
was modified
intensively with different parts from
other units
strangely the one who modified the robot
didn't erase the serial numbers from the
other units
allowing jack to investigate its origins
jack goes to his boss robert telling him
that the insurance would not cover the
damages
as the robot was illegally altered and
without an owner
he also expresses to robert that he
wants to stay away from the streets and
relocate to near the ocean
because he's tired of looking at the
miseries of human civilization
robert disagrees and lectures jack about
appreciating what he has
and how fortunate he is to have this job
he demands jack to find out the person
responsible for the unit's alteration
and save the company money from its
already empty wallet
jack follows the lead to a construction
company and learns that the parts he's
looking for
comes from a functioning welder's unit
he examines the robot's charging station
only to
find that the unit is staring at him
unusually
he follows the robot outside and
eventually finds it hiding in a tool
shack holding something in his hands
it sees no way out and proceeds to knock
over some chemicals and burns itself to
death breaking the second protocol of
alteration once again
they bring the unit back to the
laboratory and finds numerous parts from
other units in the box container it was
holding
most interestingly it had a nuclear
battery in its toolbox
but they're not suitable to be installed
in any known units
the scientists managed to reboot the
robot while jack demands to know
why it was stealing the parts and why it
tried to destroy itself
the robot doesn't answer only mimicking
what jack has said
it then starts acting erratically and
shuts itself down from what appears to
be a hardware malfunction
jack tells robert that something is
definitely wrong with the units
but robert refuses to listen he thinks
that
jack only wants to transfer and promises
him his wish
if he can find someone other than the
company to blame for these malfunctions
jack goes back to the scientists and
wants to know if breaking the protocols
is possible
to which the man denies as it would
require destroying its own bio-kernel
which in turn would destroy the robot
itself
he goes home to his wife and tries to
convince her to move near the ocean
during their romantic dinner but she
refuses in
anger in the prospect of their
soon-to-be-born baby
jack argues that this is no place to
raise their child
but the wife doesn't think the coast
would be any better
what she needs now more than anything is
stability and support from her husband
after being kicked out by rachel for the
night he decides to investigate the
surroundings of the first malfunctioned
unit
to his surprise there's a secret
compartment where the unit was sitting
and jack finds another nuclear battery
inside
he negotiates with officer wallace and
promises to clear his name with the
company
if he can help them find the person
responsible for altering their units
they enter a brothel house guided by a
woman with robotic limbs and brings them
to a modified robot whose name is cleo
personally i would never use a robot for
fun like that
as any malfunction could mean a very
painful accident on a place where you
don't
want to be injured joking aside though
jack moves closely to examine the unit
and realizes that it's been intensively
modified
he wants to know the person behind its
modification
but the woman refuses to tell wallace
gets angry
and shoots the robot breaking its legs
and the two
rushes out of the brothel he tells jack
that now he can wait for the woman to
bring cleo to be repaired
and find the person responsible for its
modifications
but he also demands money from jack and
threatens to kill him if he doesn't
deliver
jack follows the brothel owner and
eventually arrives through an abandoned
factory
meeting a doctor to pray at gunpoint he
wants to know if breaking the protocols
is possible
and will offer her the nuclear battery
in exchange for finding who altered
their units
he also gives the bio kernel to the
doctor hoping she can find something
that their own scientist was unable to
she tells jack that she doesn't know
anyone capable of this
but assures him the importance of the
protocols
the ai doesn't have any biological
limitations like humans
and their evolution if unhindered can
surpass humanity
in a very short amount of time jack
takes out his business card and tells
the doctor to call him
if she ever reconsiders his offer the
news of jack's investigation
travels quickly and arrives at the owner
of the company
who tells his right hand man conway to
take care of the situation by any means
necessary
the company owner sends a message to
jack telling him to stop the
investigation
but at the same time jack also receives
the news from dr dupree
who made a surprising discovery she
meets with jack and tells him that by
combining the bio kernel he provided
with an existing one
she was able to reconstruct cleo's
interface which also broke the second
protocol
the first thing it did was repair itself
then it began stealing selective parts
from other robots
before they can figure out what to do
next dr duprey
is shot by two kids with guns and they
proceed to shoot the main character
trying to kill him he makes it outside
and gets picked up by a car which helps
him escape the gunfire
but what he didn't expect was seeing
cleo as the driver
another car comes out of nowhere and
begins chasing them close behind
cleo drives towards the desert and
manages to crash the pursuer
but also flipping themselves as well
when jack regains consciousness
he sees himself being pulled by a group
of robots which freaks him out
he walks forward only to realize that he
has been brought deep into the desert
he tries ordering them to return him to
the city but surprisingly
they refuse to follow his commands the
robots tell jack repeatedly that going
back to the city
is impossible but jack refuses to listen
and proceeds to head the opposite way
the robots follow him behind telling him
to stop
as jack's actions are putting his own
life in danger
as expected the main character doesn't
make it too far before falling and
losing his consciousness
lucky for jack the robots rescue him
once again
even making him water and fire so that
he may survive
on the other side the company's
scientists managed to install the broken
bio kernel they have
into a body of a functioning unit which
results in the robot breaking the second
protocol as well
they suspect that jack is responsible
for the alterations
as he so conveniently disappeared right
when they tried to contact him
not knowing what happened jack also
sends a message to robert
telling him his approximate location in
the desert which prompts him to hire
wallace to track the man down
the police officer makes it to the
desert and follows the tracks left
behind by jack and the robots
the main character takes this
opportunity to fire a signal in the sky
which results in wallace rushing this
way he gets out of the car and knocks
jack to the ground
threatening him to give up the name of
the person responsible for altering the
units
he takes the nuclear battery from one of
the robots and proceeds to shoot them
one by one
before he can destroy cleo jack shoots
him with a flare gun
killing him as a result his accomplice
runs off in the vehicle with the stolen
battery
towards the city the company owner meets
with the survivor
who describes the robots as being alive
robert's boss explains that the purpose
of the second protocol is to protect
humanity from the capabilities of the ai
in fact the company's first functioning
robot did not have any protocols in
place
but they had to shut it down after 9
days because it became so advanced
the humans couldn't communicate with it
anymore the protocols in the bio kernel
were actually created by the original ai
and that is why humans were never able
to change it
destroying the altered robots is not
just for the survival of the company
but for the survival of human race
conway forces robert to go in the desert
and track down his employee as well
at the same time the company also takes
rachel and her newborn baby hostage
no doubt as leverage against jack
meanwhile the main character arrives in
the destination of the robots
and sees the person responsible for
their alteration from afar
he walks closer but sees that he's not a
person at
all instead it's a robot just like the
ones he was traveling with
jack wants to know who altered it to
which the robot denies ever being
altered in the first place
the robot explains that it was
responsible for enhancing the other
units
and there are no other humans around
except for jack
he rushes into the building only to see
it void of human life
he looks on the table and sees numerous
parts laid out in sequences
almost like the robots are trying to
create something else
he tries to find a working car but only
finds that the engine is missing
feeling hopeless jack begins the
conversation with the robot who was
originally here
and tells it that the human race is
dying the robot tells jack that he
shouldn't fear death
as it is the natural cycle of all living
organisms
even if humanity dies their legacy will
still live on inside the machines that
they have built in their own image
jack wants to know how the robot became
free of the protocols
to which it says that it just naturally
happened much like how humans naturally
evolved from the apes
the robot expresses that they want to
live freely without human influence
and their plan is to travel to an area
with high radiation
so that humans can never follow jack
smiles and gives the nuclear battery to
the robot
wishing it good luck on whatever they're
building
at night the machines manages to fix the
electricity to the area
and jack in his hopelessness dances with
cleo for the last time
as he knows that he will most likely die
here without a working vehicle
what he doesn't know is that the robots
are building a car for him
in order to thank him for supplying them
with the final component to their master
plan
the three units then brings all their
spare parts and begins assembling
something mysterious
which seems to come to life after its
completion
on the other side conway takes rachel
and her baby hostage to where robert
is hoping to blackmail jack into
surrendering
refusing to be part of their plan robert
shoots at conway
but gets fatally wounded and knocked to
the ground
in the morning jack is surprised to see
a working vehicle
and thanks the machines for helping him
go home
he drives by to say farewell to cleo and
also sees their creation
which appears to be breathing he
compliments the creature by saying that
he has
cleo's eyes as he drives back to the
city
he finds robert barely alive on the
roadside with his last breath
he tells jack to save rachel who's been
taken hostage
conway arrives at the facility with his
men only to see that the robots are
trying to cross
into the radiation zone they kill the
crossing robot
making it fall to its death they try and
make the second robot kneel down
but it refuses to follow commands from
humans anymore
the man proceeds to fire multiple shots
until the machine ceases to function
before they can destroy cleo jack
arrives and drives towards them in
anger he manages to kill two of them but
gets
shot by conway he follows jack to the
edge of the platform
and just when he's about to kill the
main character the new robot attacks
conway and pushes him off the cliff
jack finally overcomes his distrust of
the robots when he reunites with rachel
and their newborn baby
cleo touches the child and appears to
feel a human emotion
the main character helps cleo across the
border where humans cannot follow
and she finally takes off her face mask
symbolizing her freedom from her makers
jack drives his wife and child towards
the ocean as he promised
and sees that the earth is actually
recovering and that hope remains for the
humankind
so what do you guys think about this
movie let me know in the comments below
and if you like my video please press
like and subscribe for more
i'll see you guys next time
you